---
id: 08
title: Leaving China (aka It's never going to happen)
source: voice-sample-doc-2026-05-12
estimated_year: 2013
word_count: 999
---

# Leaving China (aka It's never going to happen)

My mission to leave China was doomed from the start. My Austrian roommate woke me and explained we only had an hour before we had to check out. My hangover was kicking my arse and it tasted like some local animal had deficated in my mouth. I pulled myself together, had a quick shower, packed up my belongings (which seemed to take a leaf out of the Toy Story book by coming alive at night and finding themselves new homes), put on my dark glasses and rocked out of the hotel like a rockstar. The pink stuffed bunny I carried with me only detracted from my rockstar like appearance a little. Sascha and I grabbed a "healthy" breakfast from McDonalds and made our way to the taxi rank. The taxi driver was only too keen to help us get our stuff in his cab and made sure we were on our way quickly. A little too quickly. Sascha kept asking him how much the trip to the airport was going to cost. Suddenly our Chinese wasn't good enough for the taxi driver to understand. Sascha was getting frustrated as the metre wasn't running, so he asked again and again "How much? How much?" Eventually the taxi driver pulled over and just stared at us. We asked him again how much and he said (in English) "Why?" I just wanted to get to the airport so I just told him to go and gestured for him to start driving, but even that seemed too difficult for him to comprehend. Sascha and I quickly decided to bail by the side of the road with all our belongings and flag down another taxi. The first thing Sascha asked was "How much?" The taxi driver was straight to the point. CNY$100 (about AUD$18). Done. Now… drive!

We arrived at the airport with a couple of hours until check in and my hangover demanded I pay him some attention. After getting passed back and forth between information and check in counters with staff trying to explain that even though we were flying international we would have to check in via the domestic counter and then vice versa, Sascha and I found a little juice bar and sat in silence. It seemed our hangovers were having enough fun without us interrupting them. Check in time finally rolled around and we checked in (almost) without an issue. It seems that weapons aren't allowed on check in baggage. We should our clearance certificates explaining that we were Kung Fu students, and after a bit of a giggle from the security personnel, we were let go. It seemed I would make it out of China without getting arrested after all. Shame.

Sascha and I were so excited that the day had finally come for us to leave China. It had been fun, but there were so many negatives fresh in our minds that we were just keen to get started with our next adventure. After a coffee and something that claimed to be bacon and eggs but looked more like rubber, we were allowed to board our plane. The time had finally come!! Eff you China, kiss my proverbial arse, and goodbye! I wish that was it. I wish I could just say that we boarded at 4pm and arrived in Bangkok at 9pm Sunday night like we were supposed to. Simple… But no. Instead, some people had checked baggage but not made the flight, so the bags had to be removed before we could take off. Fair enough, it's only a minor delay. Then the plane pulled away from the gate and backed into position, ready to be taxied out onto the runway. And there we stayed. We waited. 30 minutes. 45 minutes. An hour. What the hell was going on? Eventually, being the amazing communicators they are, one of the air hostesses from China Southern explained that our flight had been delayed. Seriously. That was it. It took another 10 minutes before the pilot came on and said that the weather was pretty hectic in Guangzhou so we would be delayed for maybe another 2 hours or so. I had to take a deep breath and look on the bright side, eventually I would get out of China. Every 20 minutes an announcement would be made in Chinese, and rarely translated into English. The general idea was if you wanted to delay your travel for another day, the airline would organise it. If not, well, just sit on your hands. Sascha started getting cabin fever and freaking out. I don't blame him. We were in our seats, on the runway for 5 ½ hours before the pilot said we should get off and wait in the terminal. People were furious. I tried to look on the bright side… Eventually… I would be getting out of China.

We grabbed a coffee in an incredibly overpriced cafe and waited. I spoke to an English guy who said his company has offices in Guangzhou. He had called some workmates there and it turns out the weather was fine. It rained for a little bit but had cleared up ages ago. I went and explained this to Sacha. Not a happy camper that boy. He stormed over to the information desk to find out what was going on. It turned out we were boarding again. They had made the announcement 5 minutes ago, and of course it was only in Chinese. So after our 5 ½ hours sitting in a plane, and a quick 20 minute break, we were back on the plane. Sascha and I started taking bets on when the plane would leave. We were trying to be really positive saying that because we had been rushed back on to the plane, we must be leaving at any minute. Turns out we were both wrong. We sat there for another 2 hours before the plane took off. But at last… I was leaving China!

Or so I thought.
