---
id: 13
title: No sleep required
source: voice-sample-doc-2026-05-12
estimated_year: 2013
word_count: 1502
---

# No sleep required

So much has happened since I left Brisbane last Sunday night. I'll try to update you all and try not to miss out on any of the exciting details. As unreal as some of this story may sound, I assure you it's all true.

Let's start with my journey from Brisbane back to China. I got the 2330 flight from Brisbane to Kuala Lumpur with Malaysia Airlines. It was almost half the price of flying with Singapore Airlines so I was happy… Until I had to sit around in Kuala Lumpur for 12 hours waiting for my connecting flight to Beijing. Luckily I had attained Gold Frequent Flyer status with Qantas so I was able to use the Malaysia Airlines business lounge while I waited. It was nice enough, but 12 hours of sitting around is 12 hours of sitting around, no matter how nice the unlimited complimentary tubs of Dutch ice-cream.

1800 rolled around and it was time for me to add an additional 6-7 hours of sitting to my already well worn backside. At least at the end of this flight I'd be back in China and one step closer to a return to training. I landed in Beijing and got through customs just after 0130. I was tired as I had only really slept about an hour since leaving Australia, so I was on the hunt for a bed… Or more correctly, because I'm so cheap, a chair or inviting patch of ground. I walked around Beijing International for about half an hour before I found a spot that others had clearly identified as the "go to" spot for Scrooges like me. Amazingly there were two seats free, so I quickly claimed them and tried to get in a few hours sleep. It took me a few moments to realise that I'm clearly a 4-5 chair kinda guy and 2 chairs was going to make this a very uncomfortable night. I would also have problems sleeping as the person who was sleeping towards my head was obviously a 4-5 chair kinda guy too, but had unfortunately been limited to 3. Oh well, I've been doing Kung Fu in China for 3 months now, I'm used to being kicked in the head. Eventually I realised though why I was so lucky to get these chairs when sleeping real estate was in such high demand. Someone had spilled rum or bourbon under the chairs, so all I could smell was alcohol the entire night. This intense smell combined with old mate needing more leg room meant I was only able to get 2 hours sleep and a really sore neck. I was on a roll.

The next day (Tuesday) the 0800 flight to Yantai was going to take me one step closer to being back at the Academy and all my friends, so I was excited to get moving. I grabbed a quick coffee in an attempt to keep awake and then boarded my flight. I was supposed to arrive in Yantai at 0935. This would give me sufficient time to buy a train ticket so I could join the others who would be making the journey to Shaolin Village that afternoon. Of course, my journey had been nothing but terrible so far, so why should things change now? After countless apologies and delays the air hostess informed us we had finally been cleared for takeoff… At 0940. Shit.

I arrived in Yantai at about 1040ish to be greeted by a pre-arranged taxi driver who would be taking me back to the Academy. Unfortunately there was no translator so I either had to learn conversational Mandarin really quickly, or hope Mr Taxi didn't want to talk. It seemed I needed to start brushing up on my Mandarin because Mr Taxi was a chatty bugger. He offered me a cigarette several times, and each time I politely refused. Eventually we arrived out the front of a small building in Muping and Mr Taxi had finally caught on that I didn't speak Mandarin so he simply said "choo choo". I just took a stab in the dark and assumed that this is where we would be purchasing my train ticket. Turns out I do understand a little Mandarin. I let Mr Taxi do all the talking as I honestly had no idea where I was purchasing a ticket for. As we hopped back in the taxi he laughed and said something, "surprisingly" still in Mandarin. With my limited vocabulary I understood that there were no beds left on the train, meaning I would be sitting upright for 19 hours… I hoped I was wrong. We got back to the taxi and he started kicking off again about fried eggs or some such rubbish. He offered me a cigarette again, I accepted, and Mr Taxi didn't speak to me again for 45 minutes. I should have just caved to peer pressure at the start.

I arrived back at the Academy at 1210 to be greeted by a translator telling me the group heading to Shaolin Village would be leaving soon… Like, 20 minutes soon. I rushed up to my room to pack everything up, only to come to the sad realisation that I had a whole lot of bedroom, and not much luggage space. I crammed as much gear into my bags as possible, and was forced to leave the rest behind for the vultures to pick at. I rushed downstairs and said my hellos and goodbyes all at once. I hadn't seen my friends in almost 2 weeks and so much had happened, including birthdays. I felt terrible rushing in and out like that, but I didn't have much choice if I wanted to get started on the next chapter of my Kung Fu journey. Our small group of 11 wished our friends, translators and masters goodbye and jumped into the taxis. We were all buzzing with energy knowing that we were headed towards the birthplace of Shaolin. Oh, and I was back in a cab with Mr Taxi. Worst luck ever.

After 3 hours of having every person in China snap our photos like we were some sort of rockstars (the fact that I had a pink rabbit attached to my suitcase didn't help), and having several weapons confiscated, we were finally boarding the train. I headed to my cabin and found that I would be spending the next 19 hours sitting upright, shoulder to shoulder with two other people. Of course there were only Mandarin speakers for company, so I figured this would be a great opportunity to catch up on sleep. I was wrong. Every 15 minutes a cart comes past trying to sell food, toothpaste, souvenirs, or some other crap. The person selling stuff tended to announce their presence at the top of their lungs. Good on them. The ticket lady would do the same. I quickly retreated to the restaurant cart to be entertained by my friends with card games, magic tricks and beers. Lots of beers. Not to sound like an alcoholic (note: mum, I am not an alcoholic) but if I was going to try and sleep upright with half the space I'd get in a plane, I needed all the help I could get. After being caught with beers by our master and being threatened with a staffing, we headed back to the sleeper cart to watch (and sing along to) The Lion King. Eventually Shifu had had enough of us and sent me back to my cabin. This is where my real journey began. I tried every possible sleeping position I could think of, and believe me, after 17 Chinese beers I was getting pretty creative. Long story short my 19 hour train ride to Zheng Zhou ended with me only managing 30 minutes of sleep. So by Wednesday morning I was operating on a grand total of 3 ½ hours sleep. Awesome.

My attempt to make it around the world in 80 days didn't finish in Zheng Zhou. We were yet to enjoy a scenic 3 hour bus ride to Dengfeng. And this is where I managed to get to sleep… For an hour.

We arrived in Dengfeng and were allowed to get out and look around, get something to eat, and stretch our legs. I'll upload some photos shortly because it's really hard to describe the atmosphere and food and do it justice. If only the trip ended there. We still had a 30 minute bus ride to go to get to our new home.

The arrival at the entrance to the Shaolin Village was incredible. The temple itself has become a massive tourist attraction so their were thousands of tourists everywhere. We worked our way through the crowd and caught yet another bus up to where we would be staying. Finally we were home. This is where I would really begin my Kung Fu journey. Only a few hundred metres from the original Shaolin Temple. This really is the birthplace of Shaolin.
